Welcome back everyone.
I'm really excited for this section of the course because we can finally begin understanding how to
interact with our dashboards.
In this case we'll start off by discussing dash callbacks.
So we already understand now how we can adjust the layout of a dash application through the use of components
either HTL components or dash core components.
Now we're going to learn how to interact and connect those same components through the use of callbacks
So let's talk about the main steps to actually create a callback for interactions and then we'll jump
to the code editor and create a simple callback.
So the first step is to actually create a function that's going to return some desired output to your
dashboard or update something or dashboard.
For example let's imagine that we wanted to have the user be able to input some text into a box and
then have the dashboard reply back with that same text.
What we would do is we would create some sort of update function that takes in the input text and then
simply returns the input text.
So that's a very simple function takes in a string and then returns it back then.
What you can do is you can decorate that function with an X app callback decorator and then inside that
decorator what you do is you set an output to a component ID.
Remember back when we're discussing components we can actually give them IDs.
And that was the purpose.
So we could link them in the callback decorator and then you go ahead and send input to a component
ID.
So you're setting an input and output in that actual decorator that we do is you can connect the desired
properties so you connect the desired input property to be connected to some desired output property
of another component.
So that's how we can actually connect components.
And this whole concept will become a lot clearer when we actually work through a simple example.
So we're going to code out how to add a callback to just one component.
I want you to just please note there's a lot of useful explanation in the guidebook that goes along
this lecture.
We're definitely going to do a lot of explanation as video.
But if you want to see it written out step by step as far as what's the process that's actually happening.
Definitely check out the guidebook.
There's a full two pages on how this all works.
So let's jump to our text editor and create our first interaction through a callback.
All right.
Here I am in a basic pie file.
I'm going to do my first couple of imports will import dash and then we'll import dash core components
as DCC and as you may have guessed we're also going to import that H T.M. components as h t l and then
the next thing that we haven't seen before.
We're going to say from dash dot dependencies we're going to import input and output and notice those
are capitalized there.
Then we're going to create art Dasch application.
So we'll say app is equal to dash dash.
And then we're going to adjust our layout.
So we'll say app layout is equal to.
And we're going to put this inside of a div and the Stiv is going to be a list.
And there's going to be two components in here.
One is going to be a core component.
So I'll say DCC dot input.
And this is going to be ID is equal to let's say my ID there we're going to give it some initial value.
So we'll say initial text
and then we're going to say type is equal to text.
So all this is a core component that allows you to actually input some text then a comma here because
this is a list we're going to have one more div.
So h l div.
And we'll just have to say ID is equal to my div OK.
Something to note is don't get confused between this dash core component input and this dependency input.
These are actually separate.
This DCC input that is a core component input input.
We're going to be using later on inside the decorator but for now we want to do is just see what our
application looks like with no connection.
So we're just going to say here at the bottom if name is equal to main.
We're going to say app run server OK let's save this.
And let's actually run this and see what appears.
OK so here I am at the dashboard.
Notice how I have this little input box and to zoom in here.
So I have this input box and I can actually then adjust the text in here so I can say something like
hello but if I hit enter or click somewhere else nothing's actually going to happen.
This is just a single core component that takes in text as an input.
So that's the core component input.
And below this even though we can't see it there's actually a div because remember we have the outermost
div.
Then we have this core component and there's a div right here which is just empty.
There's actually nothing there.
So let's style it with a little bit of a border so we can clearly tell that it's there.
We're going to close this.
We're going to come back here and inside this div we're just going to assign a style dictionary.
And the style dictionary is going to be just a border.
Let's go ahead and give it a two pixel blue solid border.
Going to save this.
Let's rerun our dashboard and this is just going to color that for us so we can see it when we actually
looking at the dashboard.
All right so back at the actual dashboard you should now see just a blue single border.
And the reason you don't see a square is because this div is essentially empty.
It doesn't have any text.
It doesn't have any objects in it it just has an ID identifier.
That's not actually going to output anything.
It's just the dash core component of text.
And then this blue border.
So that's just to show you that it is there.
So keep that in mind.
Let's go ahead and go back to our text editor or so here we are back at the text editor to keep things
simple.
I'm not actually going to keep the styling that was more just to show you that this device does exist
there.
So we have these two components a dash core component and an HD component.
Now it's time to actually connect them through the use of a callback.
So to do this I first need to create a function I'm going to say DMF and let's say update the output
div..
And this is going to take in a parameter called it's really up to you whatever you want to call it.
We're going to call it input value and it's just going to return a string saying you entered and we're
going to use that format to insert that string there in P-value.
So all this function does right now it takes in some input value and then returns you entered and then
that particular input value through the use of formatting.
What I'm going to do now is I'm going to connect the text box input from the core component to actually
be displayed inside of this div.
To do that.
We use a decorator.
So then I say at app dot callback.
And here is where I'm going to provide an output and put some going to say output
and in this output I'm going to provide a component ID so the component ID for my output is going to
be my div because that's what I want the output to be.
So I'll say my div is the ID for the output.
And then we're also going to add in a component property here.
So the component property we're going to assign it to is children and that's essentially the default
property of a div.
So if you're just to pass in a string like Hello into div if you do a help call on div you'll notice
that children is actually the very first thing that pops up there.
So that's essentially the string that's displayed out in that div.
So that's the component property that we want for the output.
So we have an app callback.
We have an output the component ID which connects to my div and the component property.
Now we need to adjust the input.
Now the way you add in an input is as a second callback parameter you're going to have a list.
So those are going to put square braces here.
And then we call input and we'll say component ID for the input.
Is this input right here.
So I'll say my ID say my ID and then the actual component property that we want to connect is the value.
So say component's property is value.
OK so this actually is all we needed to do.
So lets quickly cover what's actually happening here.
I create in my dash component I've adjusted my layout to have two main components inside of it a core
component for input which just takes in some text value and in H.M. div which right now is just empty.
Then I created a function called up the output div takes in some input value and returns back.
You entered and then format the input value.
So it's going to say you entered whatever that input value is.
And later on we're going to see much more complicated functions that can actually adjust things like
graphs and plots but once we created that function we assigned a decorator app that callback and then
we said it's going to have an output so the output is connected to this div right here through the component
ID and the property we want to effect inside of this component is the children property.
Then we have a list for the input and the component ID for the input is my ID right here and the component
property we're going to be taking as input is this value which in this case is initial text.
And as you get more experience that the different components choosing a property is going to become
a lot more intuitive.
So right now I think the hard part for beginners is figure out what's the actual property.
They should be connecting.
But as you become more experienced and you work that documentation and you use the help function it
will become clearer throughout time what properties should be connected.
As far as the component IDs hopefully those should be obvious because you get to choose them.
You could call this my idea whatever you want.
OK.
So let's go ahead and run this.
I'm going to say Python basic that PI enter.
OK.
So if you look at the dashboard now it will say initial text and you entered initial text and this is
where it gets really cool.
Notice how it's going to keep updating as I update this text box.
So right now it's updating live with that decorator callback.
So this is really the power of dashboards.
So now we can say dashboards are awesome and we keep going as far as you want but now you've just seen
an example of us taking one component.
In this case this input component from a core dashboard and you connected it to an HMO component.
So this is the main idea we're going to be using as far as connecting things through callbacks.
Now there's a undo button here.
It's OK in some cases.
In this case you can kind of obviously see what's happening here is just undoing what I did.
Sometimes it breaks depending on what actual components you're connecting for this particular one.
It's quite obvious what the UNDO reaction should be.
So it works clearly.
Keep in mind with more complex dashboards we create later on the UNDO will show up and it may or may
not be useful.
So just keep that in mind.
OK.
If you have any questions feel free to post the Q&A forums.
But I also wanted to stress again that we have a fully written guide for you for the price on dashboards.
I'm going to bring it over so you can see what it looks like.
Here is what we were just discussing interactive components.
So we have the example code here.
But more importantly we have a step by step written explanation for everything that's occurring.
So keep that in mind the guidebook is a really great resource to help break down the steps in great
detail.
All right let's go ahead and move on to the next lecture we're going to be connecting two components
with callbacks.
We'll see if they're.